i think we're on
hello everyone and welcome to this
week's ipl
the weekly sync meeting it's february
the 15th
2021 and as
every week we go over the stuff that
we've worked on
on the past week or weeks because we
haven't had proper meetings for a while
and then the stuff that we will work on
um so i
started myself and i don't have that
much to report
actually so done i have nothing really
hypoderated
um but what i will do is perhaps
interesting for some people is that
i will work on getting the js multi
formats stuff into js ipfs
um yeah so this is what i want to do
till the end of the quarter part time
and we'll see how this goes and yeah
just i'm
still like last week i have enough time
but this week i probably will have time
and i'm still in currently exploring
face on like how ready it is
or where should i start and yeah we'll
see how this goes
um that's
all i have um so
next on my list is eric
shoot i'm still typing um
so it's been a very chaotic week or so
but there are some pr's up if anyone's
interested in reviewing go code
i've done a bunch of attempts at
reworking how linking works in go ipld
prime
so that is something that um we've had a
couple issues open for
a very long time saying ah this
interface doesn't feel good can we make
it feel good
um i think there's now draft available
that actually improves this pretty
drastically
the short story is that
instead of the link type carrying a ton
of logic attached to it
now instead there is a concept called
link system and all of the logic is over
here
and it has nice little plugins for how
you select the codec and how you select
the hasher and stuff like this
and now the link interface is expected
to just carry information
and do and contain no logic
um i'm hoping that this is going to make
a bunch of code a lot clearer and a lot
less
circular in its connections um it also
means
that these go libraries get to move
away from strictly depending on some of
the stuff in the go
multi hash libraries
which wasn't a dragon that i intended to
slay at the start of this refactor but
it turned out to be so much on the path
that i went straight for it anyway
um there had been a little bit of
a concern with the go multihash
libraries before i actually didn't even
realize how big of an
issue this was until i started poking it
but um
where that library had a bunch of
hashing functions
as direct dependencies and
so if you wanted to add any new multi
hashes and be usable in the go libraries
you had to
patch this library you couldn't register
them yourself there wasn't a registry
concept like that
and um and also all of its apis didn't
allow streaming which is just
like wrong so
i've been trying to get at fixing that
as well as part of this link system will
work so now there's
at some point there's a map that just
goes from the multi-codec
number to going standard library
completely normal interface of
it's much simpler
i also have a pr out for some more
multi-hashes
i think most of us in the room have
probably seen already but basically some
sha-2 variants
i picked numbers
there's a pr i guess there's not much
more to say about it
um
something that i don't have a ton to say
about yet
but would like to think about in the
future is
i think that it would be really nice to
go on a close-athon
of issues in prs anything that's easy
and small across the docks and specs
repos
i think there's probably some stuff i
would love to get those to a point where
our open issues count is like
hopefully darn near none because i still
want to
be able to push forward on consolidating
a bunch of repos soon
other people keep asking me questions
that i'm answering in a lot of ways on
github issues and stuff and like
i need to write docs again
so um and that's everything that's been
on my mind lately
thank you and next is
oh things are trumping peter
yeah sorry i put some code on top for
discussion that uh
it doesn't look as good as i thought it
would ah right so
um not much uh to report ipod
is wise aside from the thing that
i have been working on on off for like
like two months now
is an actual uh library now that
hasn't been pushed yet but uh i just
need to go one more pass on the docs on
it it should
appear and be usable uh relatively
soon this week uh it is
it has a funny name because it kind of
does expect to have
you know a chain attached to it but
actually can be used as a general
uh general boxer as well
uh a lot of interesting uh things were
discovered one of which i want to talk
about uh later today we have time
uh and that's pretty much it from me
updates thank you
next is rock um
okay yeah now mine's mine's very minimal
uh
been pulled into new things
as i think we all are um but i've been
trying to
i really would like to get this spec
actors
um v3 um
def stuff done for this um specs repo
we've got the we described the the
format of the blocks and spec actors for
far coin
and um there's we've got version zero
two and now three is
is in the process of being rolled out so
will's already done that work in uh
state div
and i need to i'm gonna do it as well
and then um
and then i can i guess sanity check his
work and help
over there but um i just assume it'll be
fairly well the relevant thing right was
in state diff there was no actual change
it was just duplication because i'm
hiding the hamped internals
and that's what you get to deal with is
that it's the hampton internals that
change yeah
so i was actually thinking about that
i've been pondering what to do about
that i think it's time to
abstract out the adls into a separate
section of the docs
that's that was the goal originally but
it was just too hard to think about how
to do it but i think
i think it's time to do that and
describe the different
formats of the adls and then and then
how they use
because the problem is that mostly
they're used with inline values and
some and i think in a couple places
there's links but um
i want to because they're ideally
they're adls
in documentation too but right now it's
like it just destroys
describes this is what the block format
is when you hit these things
and it's just as if it was just normal
but
docs need to have a concept of an adl as
well and that's
that turns out to be really challenging
when you're trying to describe things
that
are also in line um if they weren't in
line if the values were in line it was
just a link you could say
sort of like you do in state diff where
you just sort of fudge it and you just
say
there's a thing here and go there and
then come back again
um but it's just not as easy in
documentation to do that it's a map
it's yeah but in when
when we're describing block layout it's
not that easy
but no you're right maybe maybe that's
all i need to do is because we
originally with adls we had this idea of
of describing the adl as
it's just it's like a map representation
than the adl name and we
we balked on that because of various
reasons but
that's the ideal is to have something
like that where you could say
you use the map syntax but say this is
actually
you find this elsewhere um
it's just we don't i think from an
intuition perspective it would be super
useful to
start out by saying you should think of
this as a map
and then here's the internals of how
we're actually representing that
and go into the detail like at a first
pass
when someone's trying to understand
what's going on
that first bit which we don't have
anywhere is you should think of this as
a key value
map or dictionary here's how we actually
lay it out it's this weird thing
and we've been here's some documentation
on what a hamptons
um i just want to make it crystal clear
that this thing is weird
this is not a map it's a weird thing
warning that's why the
we had we had that we had the long
syntax it was representation advanced
and then the adl name and that really
makes it clear this is weird
okay there's a map but there's like
three tokens after it
maybe i should just go with that and uh
fix it later if it
if we get to something better
anyway that's that's me i don't think
i've got anything else meaningful um
just a little bit of
a little bit of maintenance on
javascript stuff but um yeah we've got
the
um we've got some typescript stuff
coming through the javascript changes
and it seems that um
each one of the typescript pull requests
to add types
it also includes breaking changes to
each of the libraries that it touches
which is
odd um so we have to
deal with we i i think it comes from
people trying to use stuff
in new ways and finding that
the interfaces that we're exporting are
not optimal particularly for types
for the old language older libraries and
for the newer ones they're finding that
the interfaces
maybe could be more intuitive for how
they want to consume them and so
that's that's feedback um it's just
yeah anyway that's going on too
next is real
um i guess the main thing that
uh has that i started on last week
with others is trying to get down a set
of design docs
of what it looks like to upgrade
the current go ipfs code base to
make use of go ipld prime throughout
currently it's using a older go ipld
format
library and it sure would be nice
to not have that happen and would allow
for
some better representations of some
things so
that is coming together and should end
up in a
polar request slash issue slash the
world is evolving around me
um location later this week for broader
consumption um
and hopefully that translates into then
a bunch of people uh
actually making that happen and become a
reality which would be good for
uh go ipld prime and for ipfs
thanks we have a genius but i also
remember
from last week's twilight meeting with
chris
that you want to talk about ion in a bit
so should we do this
first perhaps
[Music]
yeah i don't know uh i mean all i think
i mentioned this may even two weeks ago
um but uh
i discovered that there is a codec here
at
aws called ion um
which when i went through it it just
seemed very thoughtful they kind of
thought through
some of the issues that we or did i
guess designed and addressed
some issues we've burned into like with
json and seymour and whatnot
and i actually am using it for
my own metal imaging thing i'm doing
here
um and actually not because it's aws but
uh
but just because i thought it was
actually i wanted i thought it was fun i
wanted to try this you know as you you
see new technology
to work and so i did it seemed pretty
cool so i've stuck with it
but i think my ideal world would be is
that there would be ipld would have
support for
ion uh well actually i'd like to use all
your guys's opinion on it if you had a
chance to look at it but
it seems like something that um
might be a good match uh and i've worked
with it's kind of interesting because
like you know i guess compare like taken
from a javascript point of view but
compared to javascript
like with the other ipod codecs they
kind of return
the javascript object and which is nice
but then
you run into some issues like what
happens if
um uh
let's see i'm trying what it was oh yeah
so like like a number
right like let's say you have a
precision issue with measure you run
into a json
that's just kind of i think with ipld
today probably just
ignored or not really addressed where so
what they do
with um ion is like you have to
explicitly say give me
like the number or give me a big ins
version of it like you have to choose
and so it's not as a friendly interface
for a javascript developer but
it is more correct because it deals with
those things that get lost
with json and the javascript world so i
don't know how that would map to the
ipld interface because i know these
may be correct i'm wrong but it seems
like the javascript one
is intended to be very that the codex
guy exposed
and tend to be a very like native
javascript but you know there's some of
those issues or with
i guess javascript and i'm not sure how
you'd expose some of those features of
ion
but um but anyway so that's that's what
i've been playing with
and i know i i asked uh
michael what he thought about he asked
me to connect some of the
aws iron developers with rod and him so
i did that but there
hasn't been much dialogue yet but i
don't know if he had a chance to look at
it or
you know has any thoughts or opinions on
it but that's
i had a look um but it was not an
in-depth look i just
it was that when i saw the number of
types it was i booked at that
but michael went further and michael's
really positive about it he thinks it
looked
he looked pretty good and even raised
some internal discussions and um
it turns out that that uh it was
considered by peel back in
i don't know when um when they
eventually decided to go with dag
with with seaboard as a foundation for
taxi board like ion was a candidate for
for a a better format um so that's
really interesting and i don't know the
context of that of or why they flipped
onto
sibor maybe it's to do with the linking
type i don't know how extensible
ion is for introducing a linking type
this might be a problem
um but um yeah it is
it's positive and um and and the fact
that there's this little json variant of
it or something you can represent them
nicely in json too and
this seems like there's some nice
properties of it that we should
consider yeah yeah it actually has
two encodings it has a text format that
looks like json as well as a binary
format i think the rationale is that
you know the binary one's efficient but
if you want something that's human
readable and
like you support prototyping or like
to go look at without having a tool it
kind of it's kind of built in so i don't
know what that would mean from a
i guess i build the codec point of view
if you'd support you know two codex i
want the text simple versus the binary
or just have it obviously attacked i
don't really know but um
yeah that's i think that was interesting
to be too codex but it's this is the
reason i want to get
jason finalized exactly that use case
where you you want to be able to see the
data you want to be able to manipulate
it manually and
doing that with civil is not good um and
so having the duality is really nice and
especially when there's
bi-directionality between them where
it's you can
you know you can exchange one for the
other without any problem and
it'll be nice to get jason closer to
that
um that's still a mission that i have
it's just it's going to be hard to fit
that in unless
unless we um our project org structure
really
helps us to deal with some of these
things
i don't know how much you've heard about
our reorg um crisp
we've had a bit of a shuffle and um
there's a
some of us are not going to be as
focused on ipld
uh as a single singular thing
well i heard something about uh
yeah this there's maybe not necessarily
an ipld team anymore
or it's voluntary i'm not really sure
but i'd love to know more
either offline it should it should mean
more people
uh touching ipld and it's becoming more
integrated which i think would be the
the upside of this particularly ipld
prime so
possibly the downside will be um this
group will be
less focused on just these efforts even
though we're all
i think we're all passionate about these
things and the fact that we will
probably keep on showing up to these
meetings even if our work is somewhere
else it's probably
an indicator of that well michael did
also mention something about
a broader audience and i think i'm going
to be bringing some aws folks into this
meeting in the near future so
if it better facilitate that that would
be great yeah yeah absolutely
i was going to say for the purpose of
the live stream uh this is actually
uh kind of like in the air still and
there are all indicators that this
particular meeting will continue
going forward at least for the
foreseeable future so yeah more
more people joining would be would be
awesome well i think the desire is to
turn this meeting into a
much more community meeting like it's
rather than just
have us doing our sync but actually
inviting people in to talk about
their stuff and talk about ibelia in
general so that'd be nice
so a couple of things that occurred to
me while
chris you were telling us about um ion
do people pronounce it eon or ion by the
way i've always wanted to pronounce it
eon in my head but maybe i'm weird
i have not heard anyone here
pronounce it so i don't know i just
assumed was ion
fair enough um so the thing you
mentioned right at the beginning about
how the libraries for it in javascript
worked
that is probably really interesting to
us because i think
at least some people have been talking
about
if we should try to make javascript
libraries with a bit more of that vibe i
think
rod and iraqi both come to that thought
at various points
and sometimes we've talked about that as
making a prime like library because
it's moving closer to the ast like sort
of headspace that the go libraries are
written around
so seeing examples of how
the ion libraries did this could be
really interesting
um especially if people benchmarked
that i suspect that could be really
fascinating because
sometimes when we've had our discussions
about this
we haven't done the thing we haven't
made a lot of prototypes of this
so we don't know but we simultaneously
this discussion it seems to often raise
some confidently shared hypotheses
that this will be totally untenable for
some performance reason in javascript
um so if there's
any data at all on that that comes from
people who have like done more of the
thing
i would love to look at that like it
would be very exciting
well i i have implemented uh i mean i
should talk about actually using their
apis like you're talking about
yeah yeah so i have some exposure to it
and but i mean i can certainly
show what i know but it's it's not a lot
i mean if i i'm gonna keep on working
with it so i'll have more
in a couple of weeks but one actually uh
so yeah and
it's it really kind of i would say
through my head through a bit of a spin
when i started
running into because it was not i wasn't
prepared for i was expecting to just be
the javascript object and it's got like
layers of stuff and
things you have to do to like access the
data properly um
so yeah i can show what i know but give
me a couple weeks of playing with a bit
more i can speak more intelligently
about it but
one other kind of related thing which
really
got me interested that you guys might
want to think about is that they have
this whole
philosophy that says um you should be
able to do like a streaming parse
of the data and then put the stuff that
you want
that's that's most interesting near the
front of the file so you can basically
do an early terminate and get out and
not to pay the cost
for parsing the entire like structure
and so
ion and because i think they i think
they use internally who knows for what
but
um but that makes sense right if there's
if you have
a thousand data items and like ten of
them you need most of the time and the
other ones you rarely need then you put
the
in the front you already turn it you
save yourself compute storage you know
whatever
network costs and i don't know how to
apply the ipld but i think the principle
it
i don't know if ipld will work where you
could do like a streaming decode or not
or if it basically
forces you to do full decode of a block
and then operate out but i thought it
was a really interesting principle i
mean i'm like
i was kind of excited about because
actually within medical imaging we run
this case all the time we have thousands
and thousands of actions
like but
of them right and 99 it's nice to put
those in the front and order things that
way
i wonder if we should try to so i think
there's a document to be written
somewhere in that vicinity
that we have not written yet and is
tricky to write because
there are some very fundamental
trade-offs in that
which any serialization format will
eventually rediscover
and i think the inevitable trade-off is
streaming right
versus streaming read they almost pull
you in like
i think explicitly contradictory
directions at some point
if you're doing uh streaming rights
then you cannot do length prefixes
because you can't stream it right
and focus on streaming reads they don't
seem the best they said that you know
their use cases like there's 50 times
more reads than rights or that's
what they're optimizing for so yeah they
do like the prefix
attribute writing and a lot yep
and and that is a choice you can make
um other things about eon or ion
um yeah i don't
i don't have the earliest notes of what
other people at pl might have thought
about this but i think some of the
if there was a transcoding from
this into json that would also be
interesting to look at but i guess
you're saying it has
a human readable textual representation
that looks
like json but probably isn't
it's it's um
i think it's a super set of
json so they json does
encode in this format but then if you
want some of those advanced
features and other things i think you
use so you do something different for
you
it doesn't it wouldn't of course the
json right
yeah so it's basically the same issue as
we have when we talk about dag json
versus json
it's close but the data model of dag
json
having two more kinds than regular json
does
the mapping is necessarily imperfect
so i think if we were to make bridges
between
the ipld data model and this ion format
it would be
kind of similar if we wanted to
be morphing the ion format into the ipld
data model because ion has
more kinds we would have to define that
morphism somewhat carefully
but otherwise it should be fairly doable
to do that
but yeah like rod said there's just a
lot of darn types in ion
like time stamp blobs versus clubs
versus strings versus symbols versus boy
that's interesting and i don't mean that
in a good way
uh yeah
um not said about that i'm only browsing
the specs as we speak too so
okay i think i think both our stacks now
um javascript and go
are in a position where it wouldn't be
too hard to
make them do the bail early thing with
if if
if you didn't match a schema um so not
pass the full thing
um so that we've got a new back-end
passer for the javascript library now
that does does it sort of a step through
parsing
that you could insert something like a
schema checker into it so
you um or or even something else where
it's
you're reading a block and you can bail
early um but i think
i think the the ipld focus on the
smaller blocks like we're just we just
don't do massive blocks
i think gives us a leg leg up there as
well
you know one megabyte maximum is it's
not small but it's
certainly not huge
great
all right should we go on with the
gender items um i've put an item there
because we still have this
um software heritage multi coding pull
request open
i mean it kind of like is yeah the
discussion
dried out and yeah so i think we're at
that point we
we should do something um
and yeah a question like what should we
do next so so i personally would say um
that so i still propose that they're
using the
get raw object for um
for all the types except for the country
for which one it was
snapshot i think or something um for the
special type
and have for them registered one special
type so basically you have one special
type and for all the other types they
use
git raw this i still think is what i
would prefer
um and i they seem to be okay with it i
yeah so
should i so i propose that i propose
again obviously repeat what
i said on the discussion and say like
this is what i propose like
would it be okay for you and then
if they say yes then we merge and
trigger
anything um i was just gonna observe i
think some of the people in that
discussion
have got some sort of grant or something
to work further on this and they're
probably going to test their theories
with code at some point and so i wonder
if we can just ask them where that
progress is and let them
kick us in the shorts when they need a
decision and maybe we can make one at
that point with more information
i think the last time i saw any
discussion about that they were saying
yeah
this is an interesting question but like
we can
build a prototype without getting hung
up on it yet
and so i think maybe if we didn't let
them it's probably not bad
it's a good point so i get so i'm like
also like
if we could totally just like ask them
like is this like is this an urgent
thing or is it
like so i i just like can it feel so so
unfinished like
it's not clear like where this is going
but if we like i can also like totally
say
what's the current state is it okay to
keep it open then we keep it open and
i'm totally fine with it it's more of
like i don't want to basically drag them
along and just
although we don't discuss it anymore and
just
yeah yeah i would just ask them i guess
that's yeah
yeah i was going to say i i actually
didn't say this on the
on the tickets uh because like it i
i feel like i'll derail it if i
uh chime in but again like going back to
what we talked about last
last week uh that we might be
losing an opportunity here by being
stingy on
codex because
the annotation by a codec is
valuable because what they
are doing is good
but it's good that can be interpreted in
a certain way
and i don't know it it feels to me
that saying oh this thing you know this
new
disney codec you can treat it also like
a good thing
is cheaper and better long term
than just saying oh no this this just
like git and
if you actually need to note it's
something else you go and
you'll look up in some other registers
or something like that
but that's my two cents
and uh i guess i guess
this is a more fundamental problem like
is
is the codec table just for you know for
basic
uh decoding or it is also for
identification
and perhaps the maintainer group can
you know during their uh work
upcoming work on knight bld prime can
clarify this because right now we have
no clarity on this
essentially what is this table for
that's what i have
one random thought i'll share that's
been just floating around in my head
is um
the degree to which i don't care about
this is actually just intensified over
time
i looked at some javascript code um it
was actually michael's kicking around on
the
encryption stuff that made me realize
that maybe i just don't care so much
um because he had this snippet of code
where he just had a bunch of
um multi-codec numbers and he assigned
them all
to the output of some factory function
that made a thing and associated it
with the number but like the amount of
variation between them
in code was like one and i was like oh
yeah yeah we can do that
and so
the idea of having a bunch of multicodec
numbers that
functionally probably map to the same
encode and decode functions
while just being a different number
that's persisted in the cid
yeah the longer i think about that the
more
it just completely doesn't bother me at
all
that also became more not caring like
that is the path to entropy though
that's this is the
this is the big challenge of that is
okay so you don't care so let's just add
whatever
and then there's there's a point along
that line where
the table becomes entirely meaningless
it's just numbers and strings
it's just a big well i mean that's my
initial position so i
right also also like what business do we
have maintaining a a
a global map of things that's that's the
you know that's the spectrum you push
towards of it's just things like
who okay this is
yeah i mean wait we maintained this
table for the simplest reason that
nobody else is
making one if there was another table
that had this rules we would be
totally using it it just wasn't there
because that wasn't
throwing up rules the rules are simple
you basically have no no takes his
boxes and you know it's uh unique ids
that's it
nobody has a table like that even with
those rules
i mean if that's all it is i mean you're
welcome to propose and you read me for
the thing to say that
this is just a there's just a global
namespace of numbers to strings with
certain rules
i i just
i i have trouble with with holding on to
some
something firm there that defines its
purpose once you do that
like you know be nice to sort of be able
to grasp onto some purpose for it which
which is already a challenge given how
we mix up codecs and and
you know things like the network
protocol stuff in there as well like
it's becoming blurred already um
but the the thing where the thing this
discussion
pokes on is what we care about which is
codex it's a small category of codex
and these things are claiming to be
codecs and that's our
that's our thing and we
are trying to define what it means to be
a codec and
and there is this space where the codec
identifier stops being helpful
and you need something else and it's
that something else we haven't solved
for
we haven't given a solution for and we
just say this is something else that you
need to deal with and we can't help you
just now
um and so either we say either we fudge
on the codec and say
oh you can use it for other things as
well
or we we push them to solve it in
different better ways or we come up with
solutions for it
and i don't i don't feel that strongly
about any of those options to be honest
and then the the thing that does make me
slightly open to well open to compromise
on this
is is the fact that these codecs are a
spectrum anyway
because you can start from raw and any
of these codecs could be raw
like they're just bytes and i can read
them as raw and as you
as you step up you add layers of meaning
and um so we go from raw to you know dag
pb
and then um you know you and you could
even
go from dag bb to you could possibly be
making
a codec that says unix fs i mean we're
adding on layers of meaning in different
ways but
um the thing about the get one is that
they're adding on a layer of meaning
where by their instantiated data
um it could potentially have other
things in it
that are only there because the codec
told them
that it's there like there's a there's a
string in the in there in their
instantiated data model
that that tells them their identifier of
this data and that only exists because
the codec
let them see that through there and it's
like the actually the other example is
the um
the binary merkle i think we call it is
one of the codex where it's just
two like it's 64 bytes of two
sha256s jammed together as a generic
binary merkle and you can just
you can interpret that as two 32
byte uh 32-bit 32 byte hashes
squashed together into a 64-byte binary
thing
or you can view it through the what is
it bitcoin tx
codec which decodes it the same way but
you see something different
and then you could look at the z tx
codec which is the same thing again but
you see something different in it
so we're already doing these layers of
meaning with different different bytes
so there's there is prior art for
flexing on this stuff
so yes the bottom line to uh worker's
question
is yeah let's just check with them where
they are and
yeah unblock them because this this
small
um you know segway uh
shows me that we are not going to agree
on what to do at the table anytime soon
well the other it's come up recent i
think dean has been pushing on this too
that
that there is a there's a lot of
misunderstanding about our primitives
across the board
and people come come to us and say i
want this new feature when this thing
added
and and very often it turns out to be
they have a misunderstanding of the
primitives that we're offering
and we see that in the multi-codec table
very frequently where people say i want
to add this thing and we
do a little bit of correction work with
them and they go ah okay i didn't
see that it was supposed to be that
thing and that makes sense
and so initially with this pr
that's what it seemed like to me because
so many other pr's have been like that
but it you know it does seem like they
rock it more than a lot of others and
they just have this extra layer of
meaning they want to insert so
so it is right for us to push back on
these things and say yeah add what you
want and use it how you want
um but maybe there are times to flex i
don't know
i don't know but welcome plus one to
to what you said going and letting them
come back to us
all right um
just just one more comment about um the
p
that the the primitives are not like
relevant
across the board there's also from the
research and department group
there is an rfc whatever rsc stands for
in this case
about some ipod stuff um and i'm
like oh my goodness is to review it but
it's also like there it's like it's like
half of it is just like yeah the like
not ipld how we talk about ipld
so it's just like misconceptions about
like how ipod works and just like
like yeah so just like to bring it up
again like it's
something i will review but it's also
like yeah i agree that
there's some misconceptions or we need
to be clearer or yeah make sure that
i build the that the understanding of
ipod d
is the same across the board as we have
sap ip because there seems to be a huge
mismatch between yeah how we talk about
ipod and how other
understand italy um yeah
yeah i will do a first review and then
also like yeah that you probably review
and yeah we'll see
um but i don't want to waste any one
time it was time on it so
and yeah anyway so and there's
one more gen item from
yeah this one looks scary but it's
actually really quick so um
while writing my thing with uh with a
[Music]
database based uh block store i needed a
certain primitive that could do more
than block format
this code that i passed is literally its
entire
method for raw data and when basically
spelling making sure that i'm
you know faithfully producing everything
i realized that
our current blocks pretty much
everywhere return just the byte slice
as they keep it there are no copies
so i basically if i have a block and i
get its
raw data i get a slice which i can then
modify at will
and the block will be you know something
completely different i can for example
append to it and things like that
uh which basically i mean not a pen to
it but uh prepends stuff to it which
will basically write
right over what's already in there uh i
sold this myself with uh
with basically having global which is
always on
uh but this i guess is something
to clarify either with docs or in
general
when you guys are moving to more appeal
the premise stuff
uh what are the ownership uh
rules for all this data because right
now it's
basically like whatever somebody wrote
that's not cool
that's the whatever face on eric yep
no this is that i really hate the going
type system face
i agree that this is a huge problem it
drives me nuts
almost every time i open an editor for
code i
am desperate for a type system that
knows what immutability is because
trying to keep track of this
by comments in the code sucks
it's just that
the best i have been able to think of to
do is i started making a convention
in the go after the prime comments of
saying it is
unlawful to mutate the return of value
and that's yeah which is kind of just
all you can do yeah we just
talked about yeah which is totally fine
we basically don't say
any of this anywhere in our stack right
now is what i'm basically bringing up
that
either we should just say that we're
going to start copying things because
there might be a good reason to do that
in april depend in the ipld prime world
or we have to basically annotate
everything like you cannot touch this
yep i think that we should
start annotating everything with
it is unlawful to mutate documentation
basically every place that that applies
and that should be darn near everywhere
um
yeah i really wish i could think of
something more powerful to do
than that but
oh this is i yeah
yeah i i basically wanted to basically
bring up that you know
right now it's not documented uh the
other point is do we
even want to go down the path of
implementing what i implemented which is
basically that you can
make this copy for you it will wear
global slack or something like that
i would rather not um
the wildest thing that you could do in
go that we could consider
is you can use build tags to do
something like this
um i've seen people make packages
yes well yes you can
i've seen people make packages for
debugging where they use a build tag
to by default it's going to compile in a
debug printf function
that is just literally the empty
function block so there's nothing
and then if you use a build tag to
enable the alternative mode
it actually puts some debug printf in
there
we could do that for defensive copies
everywhere
as a build tag
but i was going to argue that the
most important or the the furthest we
could go is
using uh os memory page protection to
have the memory that we give you a
pointer to a read-only page
um
that's expensive that's that's more
expensive than just copying it
i mean it depends where your data is if
your data is coming from a car that
you've mapped in
that whole car could be read only great
now any attempt to mutate any of those
pointers
actually gives you errors
now that's cool
but for data that you're pulling in from
codex and stuff
that ends up being expensive and not
something you can actually get away with
i think
yeah we would have great difficulty
offering that feature consistently i'm
afraid
it would be nice but
yeah there's some related interfaces
that kind of perturb me right now
on there's some areas around block
stores that people have been very
tempted to optimize
to return zero copy access to data
and so the
the aim is gotta go fast and if you're
using the
i o reader and i o writer interfaces in
go
they aren't
super great at mechanical sympathy
around
read and write block sizes like i kind
of try but
um you tend to end up with at least one
copy
for the byte slice that that reader
interface is passing around
and so people have
proposed patches that let us use some
feature detection to say like oh if this
reader has a method called
bytes that gives you a byte slice then
just
like cast the inner face and then use
the thing and then skip all the other
copies
which is kind of cool because it
accomplishes the goal of gotta go fast
but it's also a little weird because
um it completely violates the i o reader
contract
basically and so nobody's made bug
reports about that yet but i'm
borderline surprised
because it means in practice if somebody
hands in a byte buffer which is a common
type to use
it the reader cursor won't advance in it
so if you expected that then this
helpful feature about optimization is
actually going to do something logically
really not correct
to you um
[Applause]
and i have no solution to this either
other than being moderately perturbed
right now
i'm feeling like the goat type system is
really not helping me here
we should probably have some sort of
discussion about how we want to do this
in our libraries consistently
i agree that would be useful
yeah that's all i want to just put on
your radar because i know that's exactly
the kind of stuff that you're playing
around right now and
oh also this interface does not return
errors on errors so i have to return nil
and then have a different thing for the
errors hate
i look forward to your postgres library
existing
what were those read only things called
because i tried to take
notes and forgot the name so the read
only
page protection memory protection things
this was
what i was looking for okay thanks for
filling in
the gaps um okay matv is the call
yeah yeah thanks um
okay i think
we are through the agenda
is there anything else people want to
talk about
we have five minutes left
no then um a closer meeting and thank
everyone for attending and
see you all again next week goodbye
everyone